The Nelson Siegel model provides a way to interpolate a yield curve. Differently than a cubic spline method, it doesn't have to fit exactly to the data given. This is done through fitting a curve with to data points and using a minimizer function to solve for optimal parameters. 

The Nelson Siegel model has 4 terms. They are Beta 0, 1, 2 and Lamda. The model follows the equation || Beta0 + Beta1 * ((1-exp(-Lamda * time))/(Lamda * time)) + Beta2 * ((1 - exp(-Lamda * time))/(Lamda * time) - exp(-Lamda * time)) ||. Now this curve allows us to interpolate between discrete points, and allows us to extrapolate to longer maturities for yield if needed. At longer horizons, the model converges to a long term interest rate denoted by Beta0. 

Given a set of bond infomation, including time to next payment, coupon frequency, coupon rate, face value, and market price, we can construct a minimizer function to find optimal parameters for the Nelson Siegel model.  We do this by minimizing the squared difference between the "dirty price" (clean price + accrued interest) of the bond and the theoretical price returned by the model (discounting at the yield rate given by the model). 

This model is effective in that it poses less risk to "overfit" to the data from the market. Because we are optimizing the parameters to minimize the squared difference of the model and market, we can generate a curve that doesn't have to pass directly through each yield point that we have for the market. This may give us a better yield curve than fitting the curve directly to the data from the market which may have some "noise" to it. 
